Welcome, guys and gals, to this lecture.
In this lecture, we are going to learn about a very important concept deployment.
So any enterprise implementation of Kubernetes uses deployment for sure.
So, all right, let's jump into it and learn about it.
So let's start from pods.
So by this time, you guys and gals know like a pod can run a certain container image.
So let's say you want to run a web server, so maybe you are running in Unix version 1.16 in a pod and
to make it highly available, you spin up more pods within Gen X Version 1.16 and then you put all this
pod in a replica set so that one of the pods, if it goes down the replica set will restore it and the
system can achieve higher visibility.
However, what if you want to deploy those engine X version 1.16 to 1.17?
Right.
So replica set cannot really help there.
Replica set is just going to spin up a new pod if a pod goes down to keep it at the desired state.
So that's where deployment comes into play.
So you can think of deployment as another wrapper wrapping around replica set.
So this is a higher level construct than replica set, like a pod wraps around the container and a replica
set wraps around the group of pods.
Similarly, a deployment of the deploy object wraps around a replica set.
So deployment provides declarative updates for pods and replica sets.
So you describe a desired state in a deployment file, and the deployment controller changes the actual
state to the desired state at a controlled rate.
And you can define deployments to create a new replica set or to remove existing deployments and adopt
all their resources with new deployments.
So let's take a look at this with an actual example, and things will become much more clear.
Okay.
So on the left we have the deployment manifest file.
So let's start from the bottom because we want to start from the pod level.
So you can see on the template we have the spec and the container image is engine x fashion 1.16.
So what it's going to do, it is going to create a pod with a version of engine x 1.16 and it is going
to put a label for this part of environment colon test, right?
Because as you can see, the label here says environment, colon test.
Why there are three copies of the pod is because this replicas is set to three.
However, this replica is not only will create three copies of the pod, it will create another Kubernetes
resource called Replica Set.
Right?
So you guys and gals already know this and this replica set, if you see the match labels says environment
test.
So basically this replica set is going to manage pods which has level environment, colon test.
So you can set this replica set is managing these three pods because each of these pod has the label
environment colon test.
Okay.
And now on the top level, we have this kind of deployment.
So what that does is create the deployment object and how does it know that it should manage this replica
set and this this pod?
Well, this goes back to label.
So label is super important.
So you can see under deployment, the labels is environment test and under the template metadata for
the containers, the labels is environment test.
So if the labels match, then this deployment is going to manage this pod and this replica set will
also have its own label and that would be environment colon test, which matches the level of deployment
and that's how the deployment will manage this replica set.
So this actually brings up an interesting point.
So let's say you create a pod outside of this deployment manifest file, right?
Maybe you just use a cube Ctrl command to create a pod with the label environment colon test.
So actually this replica set and this deploy will start managing it.
So let's say you create pods using just imperative cube commands, not through this manifest file,
but just a single standalone command.
Let's say you create a one pod with engine x 1.16 and label environment test.
And then you apply this manifest file.
What's going to happen is this manifest file is going to only deploy two of the pods because since you
already created a pod with this level, this deployment will start managing it.
And since the replica set has three, the desired state is always three.
So this manifest file will just create the remaining of the pods to make it three.
So this manifest file will create two pods, and the one part will be from your standalone command.
So now we talked about how the manifest file works.
So one thing we haven't seen so far in the manifest file is this section, this machine ready, second
stand strategy rolling update, a max search max unavailable and type.
So we're going to come back to that.
Just hold off for a couple of minutes.
Okay.
So replica set restores pod, right?
So this deployment will create a replica set and then it will have three pods.
So even if one pod goes bad, it becomes unavailable or something.
This replica set always has to keep three pods up and running, so this is going to create another pod
and then remove this bad pod.
So like replica set restores pod deployment restores replica set.
So if you try to delete this replica set or this replica set goes bad.
This will restore the replica set with the running parts super fast like.
So we're going to see this in a demo.
Let's say you try to delete this replica set and it will come back within a second.
Okay, so now let's take a look at this section of the manifest file.
So what it does is it defines how you can upgrade your parts.
So let's say you are running in Gen X fashion 1.16, right, in this part.
So I made a change.
If you look at the image.
So I upgraded from Gen X 1.16 to version 1.17.
So this highlighted section defines how the parts will be upgraded.
So let's let's take a look.
So this max stage one defines how many parts it can go above.
Define replicas during rolling update.
So I know that sounds a little complex, but it will it will be clear.
So let's take a look.
So let's say you apply this manifest file.
So what's going to happen is this deployment will create another replica set and it will start managing
it.
And then a new part will come up with engine X Version 1.17.
So see, now there are four copies of the pod running.
Why?
There are four copies allowed.
Because this Max Sarge says one.
So basically there could be four copies of the pod and this new pod will come up with engine x fashion
1.17.
Now we have to remove one of the old pods, which is running in Gen X fashion 1.16.
Right.
However, this mean ready seconds ten means it's going to wait 10 seconds before it takes away an old
pod.
If the new pod is running fine within 10 seconds, then it's going to delete one of the old pod.
Then another new pod will come in with engine x 1.17.
And this is all under a new replica set.
Right.
And then after 10 seconds, another all part will go away.
And then you've got the idea.
Another engine x 1.17.
A pod will come up and after 10 seconds, the last remaining old pod will go away.
And then this new replica set will have these three pods and the original replica set will be empty.
So at this point, you can actually go and delete this replica set and it will be deleted.
However, if you try to delete this new replica set, which has three running pods, this deployment
will restore it.
However, for the original replica set, since it has no pods running that you'll be able to delete
this original replica set.
And the last remaining thing is this Max unavailable zero.
So this is an optional field.
So what it means is maximum number of unavailable pods from the desired state.
So what do I mean?
So desired state is there will be three replicas and the max unavailable is zero.
So the update has to be done in such a way that there is at least three pods running.
So if I put max on available as one, then what that means is maximum unavailable pods taken away from
the desired state is one.
So basically the deployment has to be done in such a way that there are two replicas of the pod always
running y two because desire state is three max unavailable is one, so three minus one is two.
And also we're going to see all of this in a demo.
Pretty nifty stuff.
All right.
So now let's jump into a demo where we're going to see all this stuff in action.
All right, guys and girls join me in the next lecture.